chore: add docs for sending logs and traces from frontend apps (#1767)
SigNoz/signoz.io: data/docs/frontend-monitoring/sending-logs.mdx

---
date: 2025-07-30
title: Sending Logs from your frontend application
id: sending-logs-frontend
---

This documentation provides a step-by-step guide for sending logs from your frontend application using SigNoz and OpenTelemetry.

## Overview

SigNoz natively supports OpenTelemetry for collecting logs, so you can lift-and-shift existing log libraries or build new pipelines, all with the same unified model as your traces and metrics.

Logs can be collected on the client side at meaningful points to capture various events, state changes, errors and warnings.

## Prerequisites

> - [SigNoz Cloud](https://signoz.io/teams/) account

Reviewer: This should also work with the Self-Hosted version, right?

Author: Yes I added this after the first review itself

- A web application from where you want to send logs

## Setup

### Step 1: Setup OTel Collector

Install the OpenTelemetry Collector binary using [these instructions](https://signoz.io/docs/tutorial/opentelemetry-binary-usage-in-virtual-machine/). The Collector acts as an agent that receives, processes, and exports telemetry data. It is required to collect data from your application, including logs.

### Step 2: Install dependencies

<Tabs groupId="logs-dependencies">
  <TabItem value="npm" label="Npm">
    ```sh
    npm i \
      @opentelemetry/resources \
      @opentelemetry/sdk-logs \
      @opentelemetry/exporter-logs-otlp-http \
      @opentelemetry/api-logs
    ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="yarn" label="Yarn" default>
    ```sh
    yarn add \
      @opentelemetry/resources \
      @opentelemetry/sdk-logs \
      @opentelemetry/exporter-logs-otlp-http \
      @opentelemetry/api-logs
    ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Step 3: Create an instrumentation file

> The `instrument.ts` file is required to setup the `LoggerProvider` which is used to create custom logs within your application and export them to your collector.

Reviewer: What about a user using `.js` (JavaScript)? We should inclued codeblock for javascript as well.

Author: Have added both .js and .ts wherever there's a difference

> 

Reviewer: Can this file be created anywhere or do we have to create it in a particular folder, for example -> `src` 

Mention this explicitly.

> ```ts

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```ts:instrument.ts
```

---
date: 2025-07-30
title: Sending Logs from your frontend application
id: sending-logs-frontend
---

> This documentation provides a step-by-step guide for sending logs from your frontend application using SigNoz and OpenTelemetry.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This documentation provides steps for sending logs from your frontend application to SigNoz.
```

SigNoz natively supports OpenTelemetry for collecting logs, so you can lift-and-shift existing log libraries or build new pipelines, all with the same unified model as your traces and metrics.

Logs can be collected on the client side at meaningful points to capture various events, state changes, errors and warnings.

## Prerequisites

> - [SigNoz Cloud](https://signoz.io/teams/) or self-hosted account

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: Done

- A web application from where you want to send logs

## Setup

### Step 1: Setup OTel Collector

Install the OpenTelemetry Collector binary using [these instructions](https://signoz.io/docs/tutorial/opentelemetry-binary-usage-in-virtual-machine/). The Collector acts as an agent that receives, processes, and exports telemetry data. It is required to collect data from your application, including logs.

> You would also need to update the collector config to whitelist the frontend domain.

Reviewer: Why is this needed ? Mention in the following sentence.

```sh
receivers:
  otlp:
    protocols:
      grpc:
        endpoint: 0.0.0.0:4317
      http:
        endpoint: 0.0.0.0:4318
        cors:
          allowed_origins:
            - <<YOUR_FRONTEND_URL>>
          allowed_headers: ['*']
```

### Step 2: Install dependencies

> Please install the following dependencies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Install the following dependencies.
```

- **`@opentelemetry/resources`**: Provides resource attributes that identify your service (like service name, version, etc.). This helps distinguish logs from different services in your SigNoz dashboard.

- **`@opentelemetry/sdk-logs`**: Contains the core logging SDK implementation including `LoggerProvider` and `SimpleLogRecordProcessor`. This is the foundation for creating and processing log records in your application.

- **`@opentelemetry/exporter-logs-otlp-http`**: Implements the OTLP (OpenTelemetry Protocol) HTTP exporter that sends your logs to the SigNoz collector. This handles the actual transmission of log data over HTTP.

> - **`@opentelemetry/api-logs`**: Provides the logging API interface (`logs` object) that your application code uses to create log records. This is the main API you'll interact with when adding logging statements to your code.

Reviewer: Explaination should be below the run command.

Also, put this in a drop-down

```
<details>
<summary> Read more about the dependencies </summary>
</details>
```

<Tabs groupId="logs-dependencies">
  <TabItem value="npm" label="Npm">
    ```sh
    npm i \
      @opentelemetry/resources \
      @opentelemetry/sdk-logs \
      @opentelemetry/exporter-logs-otlp-http \
      @opentelemetry/api-logs
    ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="yarn" label="Yarn" default>
    ```sh
    yarn add \
      @opentelemetry/resources \
      @opentelemetry/sdk-logs \
      @opentelemetry/exporter-logs-otlp-http \
      @opentelemetry/api-logs
    ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Step 3: Create an instrumentation file

The instrumentation file is required to setup the `LoggerProvider` which is used to create custom logs within your application and export them to your collector.

> <Tabs groupId="logs-instrumentation">

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Tabs entityName="plans">
```

          'service.name': '<<SERVICE_NAME>>',
        }),
        processors: [
          new SimpleLogRecordProcessor(
            new OTLPLogExporter({ url: '<<SIGNOZ_COLLECTOR_URL>>/v1/logs' })
          ),
        ],
      });

      logs.setGlobalLoggerProvider(loggerProvider);
    ```
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="cloud" label="SigNoz Cloud">
    ```ts
      import {
        LoggerProvider,
        SimpleLogRecordProcessor,
      } from '@opentelemetry/sdk-logs';
      import { OTLPLogExporter } from '@opentelemetry/exporter-logs-otlp-http';
      import { logs } from '@opentelemetry/api-logs';
      import { resourceFromAttributes } from '@opentelemetry/resources';

      const loggerProvider = new LoggerProvider({
        resource: resourceFromAttributes({
          'service.name': '<<SERVICE_NAME>>',
        }),
        processors: [
          new OTLPLogExporter({
            url: `https://ingest.<<INGESTION_REGION>>.signoz.cloud:443/v1/logs`,
            headers: {
              'signoz-ingestion-key': <<INGESTION_KEY>>,
            },
          })
        ],
      });

      logs.setGlobalLoggerProvider(loggerProvider);
    ```

>   </TabItem>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<TabItem value="signoz-cloud" label="SigNoz Cloud" default>
    ```ts
      import {
        LoggerProvider,
        SimpleLogRecordProcessor,
      } from '@opentelemetry/sdk-logs';
      import { OTLPLogExporter } from '@opentelemetry/exporter-logs-otlp-http';
      import { logs } from '@opentelemetry/api-logs';
      import { resourceFromAttributes } from '@opentelemetry/resources';

      const loggerProvider = new LoggerProvider({
        resource: resourceFromAttributes({
          'service.name': '<<SERVICE_NAME>>',
        }),
        processors: [
          new OTLPLogExporter({
            url: `https://ingest.<<INGESTION_REGION>>.signoz.cloud:443/v1/logs`,
            headers: {
              'signoz-ingestion-key': <<INGESTION_KEY>>,
            },
          })
        ],
      });

      logs.setGlobalLoggerProvider(loggerProvider);
    ```
- Set the <region> to match your SigNoz Cloud [region](https://signoz.io/docs/ingestion/signoz-cloud/overview/#endpoint)
- Replace <your-ingestion-key> with your SigNoz [ingestion key](https://signoz.io/docs/ingestion/signoz-cloud/keys/)
- <service_name> is the name of your service

</TabItem>

<TabItem value='self-host' label='Self-Host'>
    ```ts
      import {
        LoggerProvider,
        SimpleLogRecordProcessor,
      } from '@opentelemetry/sdk-logs';
      import { OTLPLogExporter } from '@opentelemetry/exporter-logs-otlp-http';
      import { logs } from '@opentelemetry/api-logs';
      import { resourceFromAttributes } from '@opentelemetry/resources';

      const loggerProvider = new LoggerProvider({
        resource: resourceFromAttributes({
          'service.name': '<<SERVICE_NAME>>',
        }),
        processors: [
          new SimpleLogRecordProcessor(
            new OTLPLogExporter({ url: '<SIGNOZ_COLLECTOR_URL>/v1/logs' })
          ),
        ],
      });

      logs.setGlobalLoggerProvider(loggerProvider);
    ```

- <service_name> is the name of your service
- <SIGNOZ_COLLECTOR_URL> is the url where your collector is running

</TabItem>
```

</Tabs>

### Step 4: Importing the instrumentation file

> Import the instrumentation file at the top level of your application.

Reviewer: Why should be imported at the top ? Explain in one line.

        body,
        severityNumber: SeverityNumber.INFO,
        severityText: 'INFO',
        attributes: attrs,
      });
    }

    export function logWarn(body, attrs = {}) {
      logger.emit({
        body,
        severityNumber: SeverityNumber.WARN,
        severityText: 'WARN',
        attributes: attrs,
      });
    }

    export function logError(body, attrs = {}) {
      logger.emit({
        body,
        severityNumber: SeverityNumber.ERROR,
        severityText: 'ERROR',
        attributes: attrs,
      });
    }
    ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Step 6: Setting up Logs within your Application

Add logs at meaningful points in your application.

```ts
function onNextClick() {
  try {
    const response = await fetch('/api/data');
    const data = await response.json();
    logInfo('Next button clicked!', { data });
    return data;
  } catch (error) {
    logError('Failed to fetch data', { error: error.message });
  }
}
```

### Step 7: Viewing Captured Logs in SigNoz

The captured logs can then be viewed in the [Logs Explorer](https://signoz.io/docs/userguide/logs/).

<figure data-zoomable align="center">
  <img
    className="box-shadowed-image"

>     src="/img/guides/2025/frontend-monitoring/sending-logs/1.webp"

Reviewer: Choose unique and relevant name for image instead of 1.webp

    alt="SigNoz Logs Explorer"
  />
  <figcaption>
    <i>SigNoz Logs Explorer</i>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

> ### Attaching additional identifiers to your Logs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Attaching additional identifiers to your Logs
```

      // This example uses localStorage.
      const userId = localStorage.getItem('userId');
      return {
        userId,
      };
    }

    function getAdditionalAttributes() {
      return {
        ...getBrowserInfo(),
        ...getUserId(),
      };
    }

    export class CustomAttributesProcessor {
      onEmit(logRecord) {
        const additionalAttrs = getAdditionalAttributes();
        logRecord.setAttributes(additionalAttrs);
      }

      shutdown() {
        return Promise.resolve();
      }

      forceFlush() {
        return Promise.resolve();
      }
    }
    ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

Update your `instrument.ts` to include this processor before the default one.

```ts
const loggerProvider = new LoggerProvider({
  resource: resourceFromAttributes({
    'service.name': '<<SERVICE_NAME>>',
  }),
  processors: [
    new CustomAttributesProcessor(),
    new SimpleLogRecordProcessor(
      new OTLPLogExporter({ url: '<<SIGNOZ_COLLECTOR_URL>>/v1/logs' })
    ),
  ],
});
```

Now every log exported will include these additional contextual attributes.

<figure data-zoomable align="center">
  <img
    className="box-shadowed-image"

>     src="/img/guides/2025/frontend-monitoring/sending-logs/2.webp"

Reviewer: Choose unique and relevant name for image instead of 2.webp

    alt="Additional Attributes in Logs"
  />
  <figcaption>
    <i>Additional Attributes in Logs</i>
  </figcaption>
</figure>

> You can find and try the demo application [here](https://github.com/SigNoz/frontend-monitoring-examples/tree/main/sending-logs)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Demo Application
Check out this [Sample React Application](https://github.com/SigNoz/frontend-monitoring-examples/tree/main/sending-logs) that demonstrates sending logs to SigNoz.
```
